Possible problems with RV estimates:

Poor line-by-line estimates of ThAr positions (x-coords).
Something to do with systematically poor fits to wavelength vs x.
Poor barycentric corrections.
Poor estimates of cross-correlation peak positions.
Bad ThAr lines corrupting wavelength fits.
Shot noise in ThAr and/or stellar spectrum estimates.
Smaller version of whatever is causing single-point weirdness in lammid.
Cosmic ray hits
Motion of spectrum on chip combined with flat-fielding errors, background


Are alleged changes in mgbdisps consistent with changing separations of
well-exposed single lines?
What are expected errors from shot noise?  From backgnd/flat field errors?
Does removing systematically bad lines help?
Does correcting mean line positions help?
Does improving ThAr line position-finding help?
Verify that barycentric corrections are as expected.
Try to identify source of isolated bad measurements.
Does freezing wavelength scale help?
Why is the cross-correlation peak so wide (18 pix)?

Notes:
(1) Time variations in grating incidence angle are dominated by spectrograph
thermal cycle of ~ 10 min period.  Occasional 1-point discontinuous behavior
corresponds to times when all 3 other physical parameters (fl, y0, z0) suffer
large value changes, in spite of their being supposedly constrained near their
nominal values by setting small allowed ranges in the amoeba fit.  These
discontinuities appear at time indices of 15, 60, and 73-75.  They do not
have obvious counterparts in the rvkmpss radial velocity time series.
Tentative conclusions:
* Must redo fitting code so that nuisance parameters (fl, y0, z0) are truly
frozen.
* Scatter in the rvkmpss data probably does not arise mostly from the wavelength
solution.

(2) There appears to be a causal (but not linear) relationship between the
rvkmpss time series and that of correlation peak width.  No obvious connection
with correlation peak amplitude.  The former also suggests a problem in the 
correlation fitting code.

(3) Time variations in the wavelength model lam_c(nx,nord) are fairly large
(up to +/- 0.02 nm at the bluemost wavelengths, perhaps +/- .004 at 516 nm).
The variations have a component that varies slowly with wavelength;  this
is largest at very blue and very red wavelengths, outside the range constrained
by observed ThAr lines.  They also have a component that varies strongly
(+/- .005 nm) across each order.  The variations are apparently random in
time.  Inferences:
* Most of the coefficients in the rcubic fits are ill-constrained.  Need to
identify what modes of variation of line wavelengths actually occur, and
fit only for these.  (I.e., freeze nuisance parameters in this fit also.)
* Need a more accurate model for wavelengths near the detector top & bottom,
since the current one evidently does not reproduce line positions in these
regions, and this in turn causes unconstrained flopping in the rcubic fits.

(4) Cross-correlation is wide because wavelength scale for ZERO spectrum
is far from scale for solar observations!  The separation between lines
at the blue and red ends of the Mgb order varies by 15 pixels, between the
wavelength-corrected ZERO spectrum and the observed spectra.
* Need to fix this!  This likely contributes to the asymmetry of CC peak,
and possibly to extra noise because CC width variations map into apparent
shifts.

