Assembling the Spectrograph On Site

Materials Needed
	Folding table 18" x 30"
	Small stool
	Nitrile gloves (S,M,L)
	Hair nets
	Face masks
	Box wrenches for cryotiger connection (details?)
	Box wrenches for grating mount assembly
	Metric ball-end hex wrench set, including 1.27mm = 0.05"
	Spectrograph components in shipping containers
		Sinistro
		Cryotiger w/ hoses, dessicator
		Collimator
		Grating
		Prism
		Exposure meter box
		Exposure meter alignment eyepiece adapter, eyepiece, Orion 
			camera
	LED flashlights (2) w/ extra batteries
	LED light stick w/ extra batteries
	Plan drawing of optical table, with critical dimensions


Assumptions
	Igloo commissioned and emptied of unneeded gear.
	Igloo cleaned (floor and walls swabbed)
	HEPA filter inside and running
	Dehumidifier inside and running
	Cradle in position, commissioned
	Thermal lid removed from cradle, bagged and stored outside Igloo
	Pressure lid removed from cradle, placed on end opposite gas bottles

Preparation
	Find a clean place outside of the Igloo to store components in their 
	shipping containers, and to store the empty containers.
	Place folding table in Igloo on side away from gas bottles.  You will
	need it for unpacking optics.
	Pick a day of decent weather --  no snow, no dust storms.  Igloo will
	have to be open for much of this procedure, with exposed optics.
	Use gloves, masks, and hairnets for all optical assembly!

Assembly
	Optical table
	Unbolt the optical table brackets from the chamber base and from
	the optical table.  
	Lower the table onto the chamber base.
	Secure antivibration pads into their cups on the chamber base.
	Visual inspection:  be sure components and cables on table appear
	to be undamaged and in their correct locations; check input optics
	turning mirror; be sure table has no loose or unneeded components
	on it; check all witness marks.

	Sinistro
	(CS fill in here)

	Grating
	Clean folding table, place 2 layers of clean low-fiber towels on 
	  left half.
	Unpack grating mount base, baffles and cover.  Remove cover and store
	  base+baffles and cover on optical table.  Remove packing material 
          from Igloo and store it.
	Place grating in its shipping container face-down on towels.
	Remove cellophane and tape from container (save the cellophane).
	Attach grating handles to pucks.  Check to be sure epoxy holding pucks
	  is secure.
	Remove grating from container, place it face-down on bare tabletop. 
	  Note that pucks prevent grating from touching table.  DO NOT place
	  on a towel, or anything that might touch the grating surface.
	Reassemble container and place it out of the way.
	Unpack grating mount legs and bolts; store on chamber base.  Check
	  to assure that lok-tite markers on joints are unbroken.
	Carefully turn grating face-up, using handles.  Place it on towels,
	  resting on the handles.
	Attach the 3 mounting feet to the grating pucks.  With the grating
	  facing up and the high end towards you, place feet #1,2,3 at
	  3 o'clock, 6 o'clock, and 9 o'clock, respectively.  Feet are labeled
	  with labels facing outward when the feet are screwed fully into
	  their pucks.  Tighten only finger tight.  DO NOT twist aluminum
	  feet to tighten screws.
	Using the handles, invert grating so it stands face-down on its legs,
	  on the towels.
	Move the grating mount+baffles assembly onto the table.
	Pick up the grating by the handles, and carefully lower it onto the
	  grating mount.  The 2 front grating legs go between the 2 central
	  baffles.  Once grating is down, slide it forward so that leg screw
	  holes align with threaded holes in base.
	Using 23mm box wrench and ??mm box wrench, tighten legs so that feet
	  are square with mount base, and screw holes align.  Use the ??mm
	  wrench to minimize torque applied to grating pucks.
	Bolt grating legs securely to mount base (3.5mm? hex key).
	Remove the grating handles.  These come into pieces when removed;
	  don't drop any.
	Photograph the grating number for the record.
	Carefully slide grating cover onto grating base+baffles assembly.
	  Bolt it onto sides of the base (4 bolts, 4mm? hex key).
	Make sure the grating position on the optical table is clear.
	Carefully transfer the grating mount, grating and all to its place
	  on the optical table.  Gently slide it so its 2 side bolt-down
	  points make contact with the 3 push-screws already on the table.
	Bold down the grating mount with 3 slotted large circular washers
	  (5mm hex key).
	Cover the grating cover with cellophane (remember the cellophane?).
	Store the grating shipping container (with insert) outside the Igloo,
	  in the place assigned.

	Collimator
	Bring collimator shipping container into Igloo.  Open and remove foam
	  as necessary to reach the bagged collimator.
	Note that on the CCD end of the collimator (not the prism end), the
	  outermost 2 tube segments are attached with RTV, not bolts.
	  DO NOT lift the collimator by these segments, or stand it upright
	  on them.
	Remove the baffle retaining rings (2) from the Pelican box, and place
	  them on the small table.
	Stand the collimator upright (glued rings up) in its Pelican box, and
	  remove its bag.
	Carefully lift the collimator out of its Pelican box, and place it
	  upright on the optical table, near the grating.
	Identify the baffle retaining ring with the large flat segment
          on the internal edge.  On the front face of this ring (where the
	  mounting hole countersinks are), back out the ghost baffle set screws
	  until they do not protrude beyond the back face of the ring.
	Remove the cover plate from the CCD end (2.5mm hex wrench), and 
	  replace it with the baffle retaining ring just identified.
	  Note that only 3 holes get screws;  the others allow access to 
	  alignment divots.
	Photograph the collimator number for the record.
	Carefully lift the collimator and settle it into its stage.  This is
	  a 2-person job.  The tooling ball on the side of the collimator tube
	  goes into the central hole (with spring push-screw) in the stage.
	Remove the cover on the prism end of the collimator.  Be careful the
	  baffles behind the cover do not fall out.  Attach the baffle retaining
	  ring with 3 screws (2.5mm hex wrench).
	Close the collimator Pelican box (with bag and all foam), and store it
	  outside the Igloo, in the place assigned.

	Prism
	Bring the prism shipping box and the prism cover box into Igloo.  
	From the prism box, remove the foam insert containing the prism and 
	  place it on the small table, label up.  Place the box aside.
	Remove the tape between halves of the foam insert.
	Remove the top half of the foam insert.  Carefully invert the open
	  insert and prism, and slide the prism in its wrapping paper
	  onto the towels.
	Undo the wrapping paper.  Note the prism has 2 optical faces and 3
	  that are rough-ground.  Handle it only by the rough-ground faces.
	Check that the 3 mounting hemispheres glued to the bottom face of the 
          prism are firmly attached.
	Photograph the prism ID number for the record.
	Remove the prism cover from its shipping box and bag.  Place it on
	  the small table.
	Remove the top and back side of the prism cover from the base
	  (3 screws 4mm hex, and 1 thumbscrew).
	Place the prism on the towels on the face opposite its vertex, and 
	  slide it into the mount, until the mounting hemispheres engage the
	  V-slots in the base.
	Tip the prism holder and prism upright, and replace the cover
	  back/top.  Tighten all screws;  thumbscrew with spring should 
	  compress the spring about halfway.
	Photograph the grating cover number for the record.
	Place the prism on its mount.
	Verify that the prism+cover is solidly in place on the mounting
	  tooling balls.
	Verify that the glue joints on the prism mounting hemispheres look
	  good.
	Replace the packing material in the prism and prism mount shipping
	  boxes, and store them outside the Igloo, in the place assigned.

	Ghost Baffle
	Remove the ghost baffle from its shipping box (which box is this?).
	Slide the baffle tab behind the collimator baffle retaining ring,
	  between the collimator and the CCD.  Be careful not to touch optical
	  surfaces on either side.
	Adjust ghost baffle position so its end rests lightly against the
	  post carrying the turning mirror, and its tab is fully inserted
	  behind the collimator baffle retaining ring.
	Tighten the two set screws on the baffle retaining ring (1.5mm hex key)
	  to lock the baffle in place.  Note this process can be awkward,
	  because of strong magnets on the nearby input optics holders.

	Input Optics
	Remove the L0 lens and mount and trifurcated fiber input mount
	  from their shipping box, and their bags.
	Carefully insert the L0 mount into the space between the input fiber
	  holder and the turning mirror.  Take care that the strong magnets
	  on the L0 post do not snap the mount out of your grasp.  (This
	  means put it down one corner first, ideally with a fingertip wedged
	  between mount and post.  Then squeeze the finger out.)
	Check that the L0 mount is snug in its v-groove mounts.  When properly
	  positioned, the mount as seen from above should be rotated about
	  5 degrees CW from the x-y axes of the optical table.
	Insert the fake (for exposure meter setup) trifurcated fiber into the
	  fiber input mount, and secure it by tightening the set screw onto
	  the flat surface on the top of the fiber ferrule (1.5mm hex key).
	Insert the fiber input mount into its hole in the mount on the
	  fiber input post.  This mount also has strong magnets, so use
	  two hands and ease the mount in on one edge first, then allowing
	  the mount to rotate into full contact.

	Exposure Meter

System Testing
