This is a top-level description of the wavelength calibration strategy used
in the NRES spectrograph reduction code.

The following calibration data are needed:
(1) A line in the reduced/csv/spectrographs.csv file, giving a set of starting
  parameters describing the spectrograph wavelength solution.  This solution
  applies to fiber 1, and is derived from a ThAr spectrum using that fiber.
  ***Use of the rcubic coefficients in this line needs to be sorted out.***
(2) A TRIPLE file in reduced/trip/, containing ??polynomial coefficients?? that
  relate the wavelength scale in fibers 0 and 2 (if it exists) to that in
  fiber 1.
(3) A ZERO file containing clean spectra of a target star and of ThAr, both
  on the fiber 1 wavelength scale, and an accompanying lambda array, giving
  the vacuum wavelength for each pixel.  The stellar spectrum should ideally 
  be a synthetic one, evaluated at zero red shift, but it may be a cleaned
  and smoothed average stellar spectrum, measured at a nominal red shift
  (the red shift value being recorded in the data file header).  The lambda
  array is derived from a fit to the recorded ThAr spectrum, which is also a
  smoothed, cleaned, average spectrum.
   
Also need the TARGET spectrum, consisting of a ThAr spectrum in fiber 1, and
a stellar spectrum that may be in either fiber 0 or fiber 2.

Try to follow two principles:  Never interpolate the TARGET spectrum.  See
that if the TARGET spectrum and the ZERO file represent the same data, then
the calculated red shift is zero (for every block).

Procedure:
(a) Fit a wavelength scale lamT(x,iord) to the ThAr spectrum of the TARGET file.

(b) Use lamT and the TRIPLE file to compute a wavelength scale lamS for the
  fiber containing the TARGET stellar spectrum.

(c) Interpolate the ZERO ThAr spectrum to the lamT wavelength grid.  Compute
  the residual shift between these spectra (in pixels) on a per-block basis.
  (How to deal with changes in line intensity?)
  (Should we fit instead model parameters such as sinalp, fl, etc?)

(d) Interpolate the ZERO stellar spectrum onto the lamS wavelength grid.  Make
  a rough (~1 km/s) estimate of the stellar z == z0, based on the 
  Mg b line order.  (How?)

(e) Interpolate the ZERO stellar spectrum onto the lamS grid, modified to
  reflect the current z estimate.  Compute the shift between the interpolated
  ZERO spectrum and the TARGET spectrum, on a per-block basis.

(f) Subtract the ThAr shifts from step (c) from the measured TARGET spectrum
  shifts.  Fit a correction to z.  Go back to (e), and iterate to convergence.

