How to Interpret NRES Diagnostic Plots 20 Apr 2018

The NRES pipeline produces two diagnostic plots of 3 pp each.   These two
plots are produced for every spectrum of type TARGET that is processed.
TARGET files are made with fiber 1 illuminated with ThAr light, and fiber
0 and/or 2 illuminated with some astronomical source (a star or the sky).
These are postscript plots and live in the files named PLOTsssyyyyddd.nnnnn_f.ps
and PLQCsssyyyyddd.nnnn_f.ps.  In these names
  sss = the spectrograph site identifier, eg 'lsc' or 'elp'
  yyyy = the UT year of the start 
  ddd = the UT calendar day of year (DOY), in the range [001 to 366].
  nnnnn = the fractional UT DOY of the start of the exposure.
  f = 0 or 2, identifying the fiber displayed in the diagnostic plot.
      When we are able to make them, spectra with both sky fibers illuminated 
      by astronomical targets will generate two sets of diagnostic plots.

PLOT*.ps
The first (PLOT*.ps) plot is intended as a near-duplicate of the "quick" plots
produced for Dave Latham's TRES spectrograph. It is intended to help the user
evaluate the quality of incoming spectra, and to judge some astrophysical
characteristics of the target object.  Note that wavelengths on these plots
are shown in Angstrom (AA).

p. 1, top panel:  This plot shows one order (order index=38, diffraction order
= 89, containing the Mg b lines) of the observed spectrum (blue trace),
superposed on the same order of the template spectrum (red trace) that is used
for the RV analysis.  These spectra are shown in so-called BLAZ format, in
which a scaled copy of the flat-field (tungsten halogen) spectrum is 
*subtracted* from the observed spectrum.  This representation has simple noise
properties, and lacks most of the low-spatial-frequency variation that
one sees in raw extracted spectra (namely, those in EXTR-format spectra).
The BLAZ spectra are the starting point for the NRES RV analysis.  Before
they are plotted, both target and template spectra are smoothed with a kernel
of about 2/3 the width of the projected fiber diameter, to filter out
high-spatial-frequency noise.  The vertical scale is in ADU = detected
photoelectrons in the extracted spectrum.  Note that this representation can
appear noisier than one would expect in, eg, the case of hot stars with low-
contrast lines, since almost all of the measured intensity is subtracted out
before plotting.

The title of this panel contains the target name, the spectrograph site (cut 
to 2 characters), the UT date and JD of the exposure start, the order index
of the plotted order, the target V magnitude, an estimate of the S/N ratio
(computed in the continuum near order center), and the pipeline code version
number.  The S/N estimate assumes shot noise plus detector read noise 
appropriate to the extracted order width.  Near the bottom of the plot, one 
finds various catalog information about the target (RA, Dec, Teff, log(g), 
[m/H], V_rot (km/s)).  At the bottom left are slots, currently unpopulated, 
for the number of spectra averaged to make the displayed spectrum (currently 
always 1), and the name or ID number of the observing program that requested 
the data.  

p. 1, 2 leftmost panels:  These panels show the cross-correlation between the
target and template spectra, plotted against redshift (km/s).  The amplitude
is scaled to unity for exact equality between the two spectra.  The center
panel shows the raw cross-correlation;  the leftmost panel will someday show
the correlation with a template spectrum that has been smeared by convolution
with a stellar rotation profile, but this is not yet done.  Sorry.

The vertical blue line indicates zero redshift, the vertical black line shows
the estimated cross-correlation peak position.  In the upper right area of the
panel one finds the correlation peak height, BC = the calculated barycentric
redshift of the target at the flux-weighted mean time of the exposure (km/s),
and RV = the estimated redshift of the correlation peak (ie, the redshift
of spectrum features relative to the same features in the template).  The
estimated barycentric redshift of the target is therefore RV-BC.  No noise
estimates yet.

p. 1, rightmost panel:  This panel shows the raw extracted spectrum (EXTR
format) for the same order as plotted above.  The vertical scale is kilo-ADU.

p.2, all panels:  These panels show other spectrum orders, containing
interesting stellar lines: Ca II H, H-alpha, Li6707, and Na D.  In each case,
Extracted signal (k ADU) are plotted against Wavelength (AA).  Vertical blue
lines show the wavelengths of the expected features, assuming zero redshift.
(nm).

p. 3:  This plot shows the Mb b order once again, this time divided by the
normalized flat-field spectrum (SPEC format).  Often, this plot is most useful
for revealing the failings of the flat-fielding process.

PLQC*.ps
The PLQC*.ps plots are intended to help in debugging the processes of spectrum
extraction and wavelength solution.  Thus, they are more about hardware and
software performance than about astronomy.  Note that wavelengths on these
plots are shown in nm.

Data filenames that appear in these plots use an internal naming convention 
that reflects the UT date on which the observation was started.  The name 
format is
sssyyyyddd.fffff    where
sss = site name, eg "lsc".
yyy = UT year on which observation was started.
ddd = UT cumulative day number (range 001-365) of observation
.fffff = fractional day number (range .00000-.99999) on which the observation
    was started.

p. 1, top panel:  This plot shows extracted intensity (k ADU) vs wavelength (nm)
for a somewhat redder order than the Mg b order.  For stars with relatively
few lines in this order, this spectrum is sensitive to the chirped string of
discontinuities that one sees if the extraction box is significantly displaced
relative to the actual position of orders on the detector.

The title of this panel gives the target name, the trailing part of the filename
for all of the reduced data files (EXTR, SPEC, BLAZ, THAR, RADV, PLOT, PLQC)
that are derived from the same raw image, and the name of that image as it
can be found in the LCO archive.

p. 1, middle panel:  This plot shows the estimated displacement (pix) between 
the center of gravity of the light incident on the chip, and the center of the
extraction box used to estimate the summed-across-dispersion intensity.  If
these displacements show systematic values of more than about 1 pixel in
magnitude, then the extraction is probably compromised.  Occasional large
values are tolerable.

p. 1, bottom panels:  These three plots show (with various normalizations),
the 0th, 2nd, and 1st moments of the cross-dispersion light distribution seen
in the image, shown as functions of diffraction order index.  All moments 
are measured in coordinates centered on the extraction box for the given order.
Each pixel in the dispersion direction yields an estimate of these moments;
plotted are the median values of the individual pixel estimates taken over
the central 25 percent of each order.  Thus, from left to right, the plots are
intended to show the summed brightness (k ADU), order width (pix) and order
displacement (pix) of the measured light distribution, all shown as functions
of order number (which is the same as wavelength, with red on the left and
blue on the right).  At this writing, the width estimate is buggy and does
not seem to say anything useful.

p. 2, top panel:  This plot shows residuals about the fit of a wavelength
solution to the positions of ThAr lines, plotted against catalog line
wavelengths.  Units in both axes are nm.  Each plotted symbol represents one
identified ThAr line.  This plot is useful for identifying failed fits (systematic residuals greater than a few x .001 nm, for visualizing failures of the
fitted solution to match the true shape of the variations (particularly visible
near the ends of the wavelength range), and possible mis-identified lines.
The number of identified lines is printed in the bottom left corner.

p. 2, bottom panel:  Besides the cross-correlation of the Mg b order, the
pipeline estimates redshifts for each of nblock contiguous segments across
each of the orders (for current testing nblock = 12).  The estimation fits
a few-parameter (shift, scale, tilt) transformation of each block in the
template spectrum to the corresponding observed block.  This panel shows the
transformation redshift parameter (km/s) plotted as a function of block
index number.  The block index changes fastest with order number, and slowest
with along-dispersion position.  Thus, the plotted symbols span all orders
(red to blue) within each of 12 blocks (which are in blue to red order along the
dispersion).  Vertical dashed lines indicate block boundaries.  In low-noise
cases, the distribution of redshifts within and across blocks is symptomatic
of time-dependent changes in the wavelength solution.

p. 3, all panels:  These are plots of the observed intensity (k ADU) vs
wavelength (nm) for selected regions in the telluric O2 B- and A-bands.
Vertical blue lines show the catalog wavelengths for selected molecular
transitions.  These plots are intended as sanity checks on the wavelength
solution;  at the plotted scale, the telluric lines have essentially 
constant wavelengths.  Thus, if they are not well centered on the blue lines,
then something is amiss with the wavelength solution.
