This is a description of the ThAr-based wavelength model, embodied in routine
lambda3ofx.pro.

The wavelength model consists of 2 parts, a physical model and a polynomial
correction.  The physical model uses physically-motivated parameters to
compute wavelength in nm as a function of (x-pixel index, order index, fiber
number);  the polynomial correction adjusts this wavelength grid to account
for optical effects that are not included in the physical model, and that
may in fact have unknown origins.

Conceptually, the physical model involves a diffraction grating, a cross-
dispersing prism, and a camera.  The collimator is assumed to be perfect,
presenting a perfectly collimated beam to the cross-disperser.  The camera
is assumed to be a perfect Gaussian imager characterized by its (wavelength-
independent) focal length.  This optical system is characterized by a number
of parameters that are taken as known and fixed, and by a few for which,for
every new TARGET spectrum, the pipeline does a minimum-chi^2 fit (minimizing 
the wavelength difference between observed and catalog ThAr lines).

The parameters are described in routine lambda3ofx, and repeated here.
The constant parameters are:
  mm(nord) = vector containing order numbers for which lam is to be calculated
  .d = grating groove spacing (microns)
  .gltype = prism glass type (one of 'BK7','SF2','SiO2','LLF1','PBM2','LF5')
  .apex = prism vertex angle (degrees)
  .lamcen = nominal wavelength (micron) for which prism out-and-back
           deviation is zero
  .rot = rotation angle of CCD (degree) relative to main dispersion along x
  .pixsiz = detector pixel size in mm

The fitted parameters are
  .sinalp = sin of incidence angle on grating
  .fl = focal length of the spectrograph camera (mm)
  .y0 = y-coordinate on CCD (mm) at which gamma angle = 0.
  .z0 = refractive index of ambient medium surrounding SG is 1.+z0.

The model computes the y-position (mm) at the center of each order for fiber 1
from the prism refractive index vs lambda, computes the wavelength-dependent 
grating gamma angle from the y-position and focal length, and computes the 
x-position (mm) of the diffracted beam from the grating equation
  m*lambda = d*( sin(alpha) + sin(beta))*cos(gamma)
and focal length.  It then maps the (x,y) positions in mm into pixel
coordinates using the rotation angle and pixel size. 

This physical model does a fairly good job (~0.1 nm) of reproducing the actual
wavelengths over the illuminated area of the chip, but this is not good enough
even to get a robust least-squares fit to all the ThAr lines to converge,
let alone to achieve the desired radial velocity accuracy.  The residuals
about the physical model are quite systematic, so one can do much better by 
approximating these residuals with a polynomial in (x-index, order index).  The
polynomials I use involve Legendre functions in x and in order index, with 
orders running from 0 to 4 in both cases.  For technical reasons (see the code)
I compute these with the routine mylegendre.pro.

The polynomial that the code uses is (presently) a sum of the 15 Legendre 
product functions L_i(x)*L_j(iord), where 0 <= (i+j) <= 4.  Starting values 
for the needed 15 coefficients are similar but not the same for each 
spectrograph; their values are found in csv/spectrographs.csv.  Starting 
values for the physical model parameters are found in the same file.  The
routine lambda3ofx simply computes the physical model, evaluates the
polynomial correction for the coefficients it finds in the input parameter
specstruc, and adds the two together.

Finally, if the fiber for which wavelengths are requested is not fiber 1,
lambda3ofx computes another polynomial (Legendre functions again), which
provides an estimate of the x (pixel) displacement between lines found in
the desired fiber and those in fiber 1.  These come from a separate analysis
of TRIPLE arc files.  From these displacements and the wavelength scale for 
fiber 1, it computes corrections to the wavelength scale in the desired fiber.
The needed polynomial coefficients are also provided in the input parameter 
specstruc.

The wavelength estimates resulting from this procedure can be used within
a loop that adjusts physical model parameters and polynomial coefficients
to minimize residuals (this is how the wavelength solution code works).  With 
good ThAr data, the line wavelength residuals over the central 35 or so orders 
are typically 0.001 nm.


The code described above has deficiencies, one of which I imagine curing 
in the fairly near future:
Line wavelength fit residuals continue to look systematic, even at
wavelength scales below 0.001 nm.  Moreover, the polynomial corrections
are unable to fit the residuals to the physical model over a range of orders
that is much larger than half of the available orders.  These facts suggest
(unsurprisingly) that there are physical effects in the spectrograph that
are not being captured by the current physical model.  If included, these
effects may allow considerable improvements in both accuracy and wavelength
coverage.  Numerical experiments have shown that both cubic distortion and
lateral chromatic aberration are important --  together, they account for
about 3/4 of the variance in the residuals to the current physical model.
Including these terms in the model is straightforward, and is on my list of
things to do.  This should allow better solutions, and solutions that are
good over more orders.

 The residuals after subtracting these aberrations remain systematic also,
so there is likely at least one more important term to unearth.  Fixing this
kind of modeling error could go on for a long time;  it is not yet clear
where diminishing returns will kick in.
