Description of TRACE calibration files for NRES  (DRAFT, 17 Apr 2018)


General Description:
To produce an extracted spectrum dimensioned (NX x NORD x NFIB) eg (4096,67,3)
from an input NRES image (typically dimensioned (4096,4096), one requires
the information from a TRACE file.  This file contains the information that
specifies at which y-coordinates in the input image one expects light from each 
x-coordinate, diffraction order, and fiber number.  More, it provides
the shape of the cross-dispersion intensity profile as a function of the
cross-dispersion pixel index dy (typical range 0-10), the order index (usual
range 0-66), the fiber number (range 0-2), and the extraction block index
(which specifies one of NBLOCK sets of contiguous x-pixels along the given
order).  NBLOCK is the number of extraction blocks per order; this is specified
in the spectrographs.csv file, so in principle can be set by the user.  A
typical value is NBLOCK=12.  All of these data are packed into the 4-dimensional
TRACE data array in an obscure way.  Someday it may make sense to consider
recoding the routines that read and write TRACE files to make the files
themselves more transparent.

TRACE data format:
A TRACE file is a FITS image file, containing a header and a 4-dimensional
data array.  The header contains the following useful items:
DATE     = The day on which the TRACE file was created.
NX       = Number of x-pixels in the original detector, and in the extracted
           spectra.
NORD     = Number of diffraction orders for which spectra will be extracted
           (typically 67).
NFIB     = Number of fibers that *may* be illuminated for the current
           spectrograph (normally 3).
NBLOCK   = Number of extraction blocks per order (usually 12).  The number
           of x-pixels per block is, modulo rounding, NX/NBLOCK ~= 341.
NPOLY    = Number of Legendre polynomials used to parameterize y(x,order,fiber)
           for each order and fiber (typically 7).
ORDWIDTH = The requested cross-dispersion order width (in pix).  This is
           specified in spectrographs.csv
COWID    = The actual cross-dispersion width of the box used for extraction
           (an integer), usually obtained by rounding ORDWIDTH up.
MEDBOXSIZ= The size of the median-averaging box used in the background-
           subtraction routine.  This is not essential to the TRACE data;
           its presence in this header is an historical fluke. 
FILE_IN  = The name of the first input file used to make the TRACE.  Normally
           one wants two input files, one each illuminating fibers 0 and 2.
           It is a bug that the 2nd input filename does not appear in the header

The TRACE data array is dimensioned trace(COWID,NORD,NFIB,NBLOCK+1).

The y-position of the center of the light distribution for each order, fiber,
and x-coordinate is given by
  y(x,iord,ifib) = Sum_j(trace(j,iord,ifib,0)*L_j(X))
  where j runs from 0 to NPOLY-1, and
  X is the x-coordinate, linearly scaled to span [-1.0,1.0].
  The Legendre polynomials used here are scaled so that their values at the
      domain endpoints are (+/-)1.0.
Notice that this scheme only works if NPOLY is less or equal to COWID.
Experience suggests this is not a problem; NPOLY=7 seems to work fine, and
COWID really needs to be 10 or more.  This could become a problem if we
bin by 2 across the dispersion, yielding COWID = 6 or so.

The cross-dispersion light distribution curves (the "profiles") are stored in
trace(*,*,*,1:NBLOCK).  Thus, the estimated profile corresponding to
order=16, fiber=1, block=4 is given in trace(*,16,1,4).
The profiles are computed on a block-by-block basis, to allow enough averaging
over x-pixels to suppress the effects of low light (esp important for blue 
orders), bad pixels, cosmic rays, etc.  When the code needs to compute a
profile at a particular value of x, this is done by linear interpolation
between adjacent blocks.  The profiles are normalized at each (iord,ifib,iblock)
so that the sum over the cross-dispersion direction (the y-coordinate) is unity.

The actual profile shapes should (almost) always appear vaguely gaussian, smooth
with a peak very near the center (within +/- 1 pixel), and small values near
the edges.  The only exceptions should be for the outermost blocks of blue
orders, where there is no light to provide a profile estimate (and also no
light in the spectrum to measure).  If cross-dispersion profiles look flat,
or ragged, or significantly off-center, then something is wrong.
